---
layout: post
title:      "Why Software Development?"
date:       2020-09-21 19:57:44 +0000
permalink:  why_software_development
---


Being part of this field has always been a dream that I've aspired to realize since I first turned on my iMac G3 as a child. Growing up, I didn't have much access to fully immerse myself in learning computing and take my knowledge further than the basics. Up until I reached college, I felt that I hit a wall in my development because my peers didn't know too much either, I was "weird" for being interested in computing, and my teachers weren't aware of resources that could've been available to me. I was also too afraid to venture out and learn on my own online, because then I'd be exposed - my interactions while collaborating with others online showed how much I **didn't know**. This resulted in a lot of unfinished projects that I want to go back and finish one day.

In college, I was able to surpass this wall and learn a bit more. I was part of game-development project for 3 years and learned a lot about working through a design process with a team of people to create something. During this, we faced a lot of challenges that encouraged us to find creative ways to solve our problems. Unfortunately, the project was never finished because it was too complicated for our combined skill level. However, I know that one day I will return to this project a more learned individual. Although the experience made me more aware of the foundational understanding that I **didn't have**, I learned that I really enjoy working with others to create things and solve problems. I naturally enjoy the back and forth, the googling, the banter and finally, the little successes that make it all worth it.  

My experiences (and lack of) and interests have led me to pursue Software Development simply because it's the field that has always provided me with the most reward. Even though I had "failed" all my past computing projects, I still took steps forward in learning every time. In essence, Software Development is about continuously learning and improving, and I enjoy challenging myself and being proud of overcoming those challenges. In addition to that, being able to create something from scratch, or even greatly improve an existing project would provide me with a sense of accomplishment. There is something very rewarding about being able to birth a vision into existence and share it with others. Also, one of my long-term goals is to also teach programming to high school and middle school students in Detroit, and offer them the opportunity to learn without fear of being judged, in an environment that fully supports their ideas and efforts. I want to be the person for them that I didn't have, help them gain confidence in themselves and inspire them to learn, collaborate with their peers. Software Development provides people with a broad range of career opportunities that I want to have access to, and help others gain access to. 
